solution_documentation/Technical Documentation.md, before:

# Technical Documentation Detailed

## Nodes

### Orchestrator

- If orchestrator runs first time, checks if scenario B or C, otherwise Continue.
  - if Continue: 
     - set next_tool_name = get_next_tool(state).
  - if scenario B , set next_tool_name = 'generate_answer'.
  - if scenario C:
           -  LLMCall: "Write a sentence suggesting an analysis with the existing schema.". Place it in notes.
		   -  set next_tool_name: generate_answer.
		   -  set Scenario = C.
- If orchestrator run once: 
   - set next_tool = get_next_tool(state).
   - if next_tool = 'generate_answer', set scenario = A and set notes = None.

### extract_analytical_intent

- LLMCall prompt_clear_or_ambiguous:
  - If Output 1: Analytical Intent Extracted
      - LLMCall prompt_clear ("Refine technically the user ask")
	  - set analytical_intent = result of LLMCall.
	  - set Scenario = A
	  - set Notes = None.
	  - set tool_name = create_sql_query_or_queries.
  - If Output 2: Analytical Intent Ambiguous
    - LLMCall prompt_ambiguous ("identifying what makes the question ambiguous & provide max 3 alternatives to choose from.)
	- set analytical_intent = result of LLMCall.
	- LLMCall prompt_notes ("here are different intents: xxx. Explain what makes the question ambiguous and mention the alternatives.")
	- set Notes = result of LLMCall.
	- set tool_name = generate_answer
	- set Scenario = D.


### create_sql_query_or_queries

- LLMCall: "create sql query basedon on intents, db schema, db content".
- set current_sql_queries[query] =  result of LLMCall.
- set current_sql_queries[explanation,result,insight]= ''.
- execute_sql_query: for every sql query:
  - executes it:
        - if execution is without errors, set sql_query_result = result of execution.
		- if execution has errors, 3 attempts to:
		     - correct_syntax_sql_query: LLMCall ("Correct the following sql query which returns an error caused by wrong syntax.")			   
			 - execute new sql.
			 - set sql_query_result 
		- checks if sql_query_result exceeds 500 tokens.
		  - if does not exceed:
		       - set analysis = create_query_analysis(sql_query, sql_query_result)
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['insight'] = analysis
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['explanation'] = create_query_explanation(sql_query) which runs LLMCall ("highlight parts of this query")
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['query']
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['result']
		  - if exceeds,3 iterations to:
		          - calls to refine_sql_query() which runs an LLMCall ("optimize a sql query that returns > 20 rows or exceeds the token limit.")

### generate_answer

- retrieves scenario.
- based on scenario, retrieves prompt.
- runs the LLMCall (if scenario is A, attaches to the prompt the Key Assumptions)
- set llm_answer to the result of LLMCall.
- manage_memory_chat_history.

## Scenarios

Scenario A: intent clear -> sql generation and execution.
Orchestrator -> extract_analytical_intent -> Checks if intent is clear or ambiguous, decides it's clear -> Orchestrator -> create_sql_query_or_queries -> generate_answer

Scenario B: pleasentries or the agent does not need to generate sql to answer the question (question is answered in chat history).
Orchestrator -> decides its scenario B -> generate_answer

Scenario C: user asks for data/metrics not available in the database schema.
Orchestrator -> decides its scenario C -> generate_answer

Scenario D: analytical intent ambiguous -> needs followup.
Orchestrator 
-> extract_analytical_intent 
-> Checks if intent is clear or ambiguous, decides it's ambigous 
-> set analytical_intent = LLMCall "provide max 3 alternatives" 
-> set Notes = LLMCall "Explain what makes the question ambiguous and mention the alternatives." 
-> generate_answer

## Key Variables

### database_schema_context
Contains table and column definitions, relationships, query instructions for key terms, date range assumptions.
Used to inject context for the LLM to create accurate sql queries. In: extract_analytical_intent ....

### Notes:
Scenario A: blank.
Scenario B: blank.
Scenario C: Write a sentence suggesting an analysis with the existing schema.
Scenario D: brief explanation of what makes the question ambiguous and mention alternatives.

## functions

get_next_tool(state): - if extract_analytical_intent and create sql query ran once: generate_answer, 
                      - otherwise: extract_analytical_intent.	

## Dependencies between modules

- src.init.init_demo_database.demo_database_util: class DemoDatabaseMetadataManager

- src.init.llm_util: llm_provider variable and helper functions for calling the llm provider and calculating tokens. 	
	
- src.init.initialization: connection strings and keys to connect to db, llm provider, langsmith.
functions to manage thread ids.
creates variables objects_documentation, database_content, sql_dialect.

## Guidelines for documenting glossaries

### database_schema

#### query_to_get_column_values
populate this for the attributes that are important for suggesting detailed analysis on those attributes, or for knowing the key values stored in these columns (ex specific client segments).

It's used for the agent to understand which column to query based on specific values ("what about BDM?" - BDM being a client segment, the agent has to know it's part of the respective columns).

It's also used for the agent to suggest next steps.

#### date_range.
Used to make the agent aware of which dates are available in the database.

### business_glossary

#### key_terms:
- in the query_instructions key, add instructions on how to query. 
- use active, direct language like "to get recent records, filter for account.account_status = 'Active'"
- whenever you mention a column, specify in this format: table_name.column_name
- add here filters and transformations for querying certain terms.

#### Synonyms:
- Add the synonym to the left and the key term (defined) in the right

Commit message:

change the structure of db schema to include column values

solution_documentation/Technical Documentation.md, after:

# Technical Documentation Detailed

## Nodes

### Orchestrator

- If orchestrator runs first time, checks if scenario B or C, otherwise Continue.
  - if Continue: 
     - set next_tool_name = get_next_tool(state).
  - if scenario B , set next_tool_name = 'generate_answer'.
  - if scenario C:
           -  LLMCall: "Write a sentence suggesting an analysis with the existing schema.". Place it in notes.
		   -  set next_tool_name: generate_answer.
		   -  set Scenario = C.
- If orchestrator run once: 
   - set next_tool = get_next_tool(state).
   - if next_tool = 'generate_answer', set scenario = A and set notes = None.

### extract_analytical_intent

- LLMCall prompt_clear_or_ambiguous:
  - If Output 1: Analytical Intent Extracted
      - LLMCall prompt_clear ("Refine technically the user ask")
	  - set analytical_intent = result of LLMCall.
	  - set Scenario = A
	  - set Notes = None.
	  - set tool_name = create_sql_query_or_queries.
  - If Output 2: Analytical Intent Ambiguous
    - LLMCall prompt_ambiguous ("identifying what makes the question ambiguous & provide max 3 alternatives to choose from.)
	- set analytical_intent = result of LLMCall.
	- LLMCall prompt_notes ("here are different intents: xxx. Explain what makes the question ambiguous and mention the alternatives.")
	- set Notes = result of LLMCall.
	- set tool_name = generate_answer
	- set Scenario = D.


### create_sql_query_or_queries

- LLMCall: "create sql query basedon on intents, db schema, db content".
- set current_sql_queries[query] =  result of LLMCall.
- set current_sql_queries[explanation,result,insight]= ''.
- execute_sql_query: for every sql query:
  - executes it:
        - if execution is without errors, set sql_query_result = result of execution.
		- if execution has errors, 3 attempts to:
		     - correct_syntax_sql_query: LLMCall ("Correct the following sql query which returns an error caused by wrong syntax.")			   
			 - execute new sql.
			 - set sql_query_result 
		- checks if sql_query_result exceeds 500 tokens.
		  - if does not exceed:
		       - set analysis = create_query_analysis(sql_query, sql_query_result)
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['insight'] = analysis
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['explanation'] = create_query_explanation(sql_query) which runs LLMCall ("highlight parts of this query")
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['query']
			   - set ['current_sql_queries']['result']
		  - if exceeds,3 iterations to:
		          - calls to refine_sql_query() which runs an LLMCall ("optimize a sql query that returns > 20 rows or exceeds the token limit.")

### generate_answer

- retrieves scenario.
- based on scenario, retrieves prompt.
- runs the LLMCall (if scenario is A, attaches to the prompt the Key Assumptions)
- set llm_answer to the result of LLMCall.
- manage_memory_chat_history.

## Scenarios

Scenario A: intent clear -> sql generation and execution.
Orchestrator -> extract_analytical_intent -> Checks if intent is clear or ambiguous, decides it's clear -> Orchestrator -> create_sql_query_or_queries -> generate_answer

Scenario B: pleasentries or the agent does not need to generate sql to answer the question (question is answered in chat history).
Orchestrator -> decides its scenario B -> generate_answer

Scenario C: user asks for data/metrics not available in the database schema.
Orchestrator -> decides its scenario C -> generate_answer

Scenario D: analytical intent ambiguous -> needs followup.
Orchestrator 
-> extract_analytical_intent 
-> Checks if intent is clear or ambiguous, decides it's ambigous 
-> set analytical_intent = LLMCall "provide max 3 alternatives" 
-> set Notes = LLMCall "Explain what makes the question ambiguous and mention the alternatives." 
-> generate_answer

## Key Variables

### database_schema_context
Contains table and column definitions, relationships, query instructions for key terms, date range assumptions.
Used to inject context for the LLM to create accurate sql queries. In: extract_analytical_intent ....

### Notes:
Scenario A: blank.
Scenario B: blank.
Scenario C: Write a sentence suggesting an analysis with the existing schema.
Scenario D: brief explanation of what makes the question ambiguous and mention alternatives.

## functions

get_next_tool(state): - if extract_analytical_intent and create sql query ran once: generate_answer, 
                      - otherwise: extract_analytical_intent.	

## Dependencies between modules

- src.init.init_demo_database.demo_database_util: class DemoDatabaseMetadataManager

- src.init.llm_util: llm_provider variable and helper functions for calling the llm provider and calculating tokens. 	
	
- src.init.initialization: connection strings and keys to connect to db, llm provider, langsmith.
functions to manage thread ids.
creates variables objects_documentation, database_content, sql_dialect.

## Guidelines for documenting glossaries

### database_schema

#### column_values
add here the values of columns that do not change frequently and are static. separate values by tab delimiter (" | ")

#### query_to_get_column_values
populate this for the attributes that are important for suggesting detailed analysis on those attributes, or for knowing the key values stored in these columns (ex specific client segments). You populate this field for attributes whose values are not static and needs to be refreshed at least monthly.

It's used for the agent to understand which column to query based on specific values ("what about BDM?" - BDM being a client segment, the agent has to know it's part of the respective columns).

It's also used for the agent to suggest next steps.

#### date_range.
Used to make the agent aware of which dates are available in the database.
The result of the query will be 1:1 shown in key assumptions if the underlying table is queried.
Populate this field for date fields that are refreshed at least monthly.

### business_glossary

#### key_terms:
- in the query_instructions key, add instructions on how to query. Add the filters exactly how the agent should query. for example, add '' between static values like status = 'Open'.
- use active, direct language like "to get recent records, filter for account.account_status = 'Active'"
- whenever you mention a column, specify in this format: table_name.column_name
- add here filters and transformations for querying certain terms.

#### Synonyms:
- Add the synonym to the left and the key term (defined) in the right
